Here's a look inside security at the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner
By Tamara Keith

Updated Monday, April 27, 2026 • 3:30 PM EDT

Tamara Keith was president of the WHCA from 2022-2023 and planned the 2023 dinner. 

The White House Correspondents' Association Dinner has long been held at the Washington Hilton, which hosts a lot of high profile events at least in part because of a unique design that is specifically intended for presidential security. There's even a special entrance for the president and a dedicated holding room behind the stage with a presidential seal engraved on the floor.

These design changes were made with intention after President Ronald Reagan was shot outside the hotel in 1981.

In the years when the president attends the WHCA dinner, the Secret Service takes over the security for the event, though numerous law enforcement agencies had personnel on site Saturday night. The hotel also hosts the annual National Prayer Breakfast in the same ballroom with similar government dignitaries and that event is also secured by the Secret Service.

The Washington Hilton is a busy hotel with more than 1100 rooms and many unrelated guests. There are also pre-dinner receptions and just a lot of people coming in and out. And, whenever this many people gather and when the president is out in public, there are always risks.

The closer you get to the ballroom, though, which is two levels down from the main lobby of the hotel, the tighter the security gets. Everyone has to show a ticket and go through airport security style screening. That screening takes place one floor above the ballroom entrance.

With those security realities and that hotel layout in mind, this is how events unfolded on Saturday evening: inside the ballroom, there was a lull in the program around 8:30 p.m. as the wait staff were coming around to pick up salad plates when a noise that sounded like a rapid burst of gunfire rang out. Secret Service agents came running into the room from all angles.

The president and vice president were pulled from the stage as guests took cover. Other security details climbed on tables and chairs searching the packed ballroom for cabinet secretaries, and the speaker of the house, people in the presidential line of succession and extracted them from the room.

What we know now is that the gunman was actually one floor above the ballroom. He ran through a security checkpoint headed for the stairs that lead down to the ballroom, but he was tackled before he got there.

Related Story: NPR
There has been criticism that the alleged assailant was able to get as close as he was. Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche addressed those concerns in a press conference at the Department of Justice on Monday afternoon.

"I want to make this clear. This man was a floor above the ballroom with hundreds of federal agents between him and the president of the United States," Blanche said. "Law enforcement did not fail. They did exactly what they are trained to do."

A senior White House official shared a statement on the condition of anonymity to speak freely saying the president stands by the Secret Service.

"President Trump has said he personally thinks they did an excellent job neutralizing the shooter and moving the President, First Lady, Vice President and cabinet to safety."

The official went on to say that Susie Wiles, the White House chief of staff, will hold a meeting this week with top officials from DHS, the Secret Service and White House operations to discuss current security processes and procedures for the president.

The president has indicated he would like to hold another dinner in the next 30 days which seems logistically and financially unlikely. In an interview with CBS' 60 Minutes Sunday evening, he did encourage the WHCA to redo the event with tighter security — but stopped short of saying he would attend.

"We should do it within 30 days, and they'll have even more security, and they'll have bigger perimeter security," Trump said. "It'll be fine. But tell 'em to do it again."

"It's not that I wanna go. I'm very busy. I don't need that," he added.

But he implied he didn't want to let the bad guys win and said, "I think it's very important that they do it again."

Transcript
A MARTÍNEZ, HOST:

We're following up this morning on an incident at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner.

STEVE INSKEEP, HOST:

A gunman tried to rush past security on the way to the ballroom, where the president, vice president, cabinet members and lawmakers were about to have dinner with the media. Shots were fired. The president shared his initial thoughts after the gunshots on CBS's "60 Minutes" on Sunday with Norah O'Donnell.

(SOUNDBITE OF TV SHOW, "60 MINUTES")

NORAH O' DONNELL: How worried were you that there were going to be injuries?

PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I wasn't worried. I understand life. We live in a crazy world.

INSKEEP: In a moment, we'll hear from Democratic representative Jamie Raskin who was in the room. We begin with an NPR reporter who was also there.

MARTÍNEZ: NPR senior political correspondent Tamara Keith joins us.

Tam, you were in the ballroom at the Washington Hilton. Walk us through what happened.

TAMARA KEITH, BYLINE: There was a muffled noise that sounded like a rapid burst of gunfire. Then Secret Service agents came running into the room from all angles. The president and vice president were pulled from the stage. Everyone took cover. This is a room with 2,600 people. It was tense and scary as security details climbed over tables and chairs searching for people who are in the presidential line of succession.

What we know now is that the gunman was actually one floor above the ballroom. He ran through a security checkpoint, headed for the stairs that lead down to the ballroom, but he was tackled before he got there. The acting Attorney General Todd Blanche characterized the incident this way Sunday on NBC's "Meet The Press."

(SOUNDBITE OF TV SHOW, "MEET THE PRESS")

TODD BLANCHE: While this was extraordinarily dangerous and put a lot of lives at risk and there's no doubt that that's something that we're going to have to learn from over the next couple of weeks, the system worked. We were safe.

MARTÍNEZ: Tam, you're a former president of the Correspondents' Association. That means that you have planned one of these dinners.

KEITH: Yeah.

MARTÍNEZ: Tell us about the security situation. How's that set up?

KEITH: It's - this dinner has long been held at the Washington Hilton, which has a special entrance for the president and a secure holding room behind the stage. Some of these unique security features were added after President Reagan was shot outside of the hotel in 1981. When the president attends the WHCA dinner, the Secret Service actually takes over the security.

Everyone going into the ballroom has to show a ticket and go through airport security-style screening. But this is still a busy hotel with regular guests, and there are always risks when the president is out in public.

MARTÍNEZ: Yeah. And President Trump has been targeted by potential assassins before. How is he reacting to all this?

KEITH: There's been this mix of trying to deliver a unifying message, even praising the press, which is off brand. And he then put a very Trumpian spin on the fact that he's been targeted repeatedly. This is from a phone interview Sunday morning, with Fox News.

(SOUNDBITE OF TV SHOW, "FOX NEWS")

TRUMP: Really, if you're a consequential president, you're in much more danger than if you're not a consequential president.

KEITH: He also used the moment to make multiple pitches for his White House ballroom project, and by Sunday evening, he was back to attacking the press and blaming the rhetoric of Democrats for political violence.

MARTÍNEZ: So then let's get into the politics of this because I'm wondering what this might mean politically.

KEITH: Yeah. This all came at the end of a bad week for the president politically, with his approval ratings at their lowest ever and the Iran war dragging on in a sort of suspended animation. So, this does at least temporarily move the focus away from all that. But this incident also feeds the unease I hear from voters about how chaotic and divided the country feels now.

MARTÍNEZ: That's NPR's Tamara Keith.

Tam, thanks a lot.

KEITH: You're welcome.